hi ready to stuff your head full of
amazing and little-known facts that
actually might be useful to you someday
hey you never know so let's get to it
already do aircraft have horns yes they
do but they don't work when a plane's
flying the signalling system is used to
communicate with engineers on the ground
those pointy pod looking things below
the plane's wings are called flap tract
fairings they protect the wings flaps
every time they extend or retract the
pods also reduce the drag when a plane's
up they're traveling at high speeds the
computer that landed the Apollo 11
mission on the moon in 1969 was less
powerful than a modern calculator but it
was a really big deal for its time as it
was one of the first computers that was
less than the size of a whole room
another fun space fact people went to
the moon before wheels were added on
suitcases at second giant leap for
mankind happened a couple of years later
so fish don't need eyelids because their
eye stay hydrated and clean underwater
land dwellers like you and me evolved to
have eyelids well we just blew the lid
off of that fact Japan has an underwater
mailbox that can get around 200 pieces
of mail on the busiest days to use it
you'll need to write your message on
waterproof paper using oil-based markers
and then dive about three stories down
to send it off doesn't the stamp just
kind of float off
1% of the static you see when your TV is
in between channels is leftover
microwaves from the big bag no not the
TV show the original Big Bang only 11
percent of the world's population is
left-handed
the other half used their right hand to
write draw and do other tasks yeah it's
more than half actually and just 1% of
the population has no dominant hand so
which group do you belong to the
loneliest creature on earth is a whale
living in the Pacific Ocean
nobody has responded to its calls for
decades that's sad next time someone
says I'll get it done in a jiffy
remember this scientists say a jiffy is
the time light needs to travel one
centimeter about the width of your
fingernail in a vacuum
wow you're late even before you start
Tibet's Black Diamond apples are a very
dark shade of purple and look like giant
blueberries the desert-dwelling kangaroo
rat never drinks water the rodent gets
all the necessary hydration from the
seeds it feeds on camels don't use their
humps to store water they're filled with
fat needed when food is scarce
it also helps regulate the animals body
temperature a 20-19 study found that
spending a few months in Antarctica can
shrink your brain the monotony of
endless snow and isolation probably
doesn't give you enough food for thought
the light stars emit is constant and
steady the Earth's atmosphere interferes
and makes it look as if they're
twinkling when they're really not back
in the day you couldn't show toilets on
TV in 1957 one programme ran into
trouble because its script included a
bathroom singer they came to a
compromise by showing the toilet tank
and not the ball well haven't we come a
long way
people fear Tomatoes in the 18th century
because they thought there were
poisonous
but the real culprit making aristocrats
sick was their pewter plates the silver
looking dish contained lead and the
tomatoes acidity caused it to leak into
the food a farmer from Iowa named
Charles Osborne holds the world record
for the longest continuous hiccups in
history about lasted 68 years have a
drink Charles noru a tiny island nation
in the Pacific Ocean is one of the few
countries in the world without an
official capital so who is in charge
you can rent the entire country of
Liechtenstein for $70,000 an evening but
remember the minimum is two nights oh
and you can also bring 900 of your
closest friends for a party in the
Middle Ages sesame seeds were considered
a superfood no wonder they were worth
their weight in gold now if there are 23
people in the same room there's a 50%
chance that at least two of them have a
birthday on the same day in a room with
75 people the probability goes up to
more than 99 percent it's called the
birthday paradox in 1994 Los Angeles
experienced a citywide blackout that
night authorities received hundreds of
calls reporting a strange glowing light
in the sky it turned out people just saw
our home Milky Way galaxy for the first
time if you put your feet in a bag
filled with peeled garlic you can
actually taste it on your tongue a
molecule in garlic can penetrate your
skin travel through your body and reach
your mouth and nose hey I think you
should try it let me know in the
comments pirates didn't wear eye patches
to cover a missing eye it was an
effective way to improve their night
vision
10% of the world's population is
allergic to cats
but cats can also be allergic to people
although way less often a common
misconception that a blue whale's heart
is the size of a car but it's more like
the size of a large French door
refrigerator that's still a big heart
more than 600 times the size of yours or
mine a $1 bill usually lasts six years
and costs five cents to produce there's
a world record for holding the most
world record titles it belongs to
ashrita Furman who sit around 600
records and still holds over 200 of them
chances are you're drinking glass
contains the same water dinosaurs drank
when they were still roaming the planet
now think about that there's enough iron
in your body to produce a three-inch
long nail the way living creatures
perceive time depends on their size
that's why you see flies moving fast and
they perceive you in slow-mo when you're
awake your brain can produce enough
electricity to power a lightbulb going
that's a bright idea your stomach
produces over 6 cups of acid every day
this acid is strong enough to dissolve
metal but how about this throughout your
life you'll produce enough saliva to
fill 2 medium sized swimming pools yes
they're full of spit avocados are tricky
they can't ripen on trees but if you
pick it too early it won't be flavorful
and oily enough leave it for too long
and it'll turn rancid huh timing is
everything
fossils prove that 40 million years ago
penguins
were the size of a large male kangaroo
in 2019 NASA recorded a tremor on Mars
that resembled an earthquake it became
the first officially documented Mars
quake in history over morrow means the
day after tomorrow
this word goes all the way back to the
16th century hummingbirds can move their
wings 80 times per second they can also
fly backward at the same speed they go
forward they just don't know the words
to popular songs the oldest operating
hotel in the world is the nishiyama
onsen in japan it's been working for 13
centuries and has gone through 52 family
generations whether they're bellman has
been there since the place opened and
that really the slinky came about by
accident its inventor Richard James was
trying to make a spring that could keep
ship equipment more stable when he saw
how bouncy the result of his experiment
was the thing got rebranded as a toy
Mark Zuckerberg has red-green color
blindness
so what don't be driving on the same
road as him turns out he made Facebook
blue because it was the color he could
see most clearly bulls and cows are also
red-green color blind so it's not the
color of the Torrio's red maleta that
angers the bull it's the fabric swinging
movements in 1911 Mona Lisa was stolen
from the Louvre and went missing for two
years Pablo Picasso was one of the main
suspects Barbies full name is Barbara
Millicent Roberts and ken is short for
Kenneth Shawn Carson
so now you know deja vu is the feeling
of having already lived through the same
situation before the opposite is Jamie
vu that's when you know something
happened before but can't remember it
astronauts get a day off for Christmas
they eat together and unwrapped gifts
and zero-gravity
yep they have presents delivered to them
by a cargo spacecraft the word computer
was first used in 1613 it referred to a
person carrying out calculations only in
the middle of the 20th century the words
meaning changed now your lungs aren't
the same size the right one is wider
because your heart needs more room on
the left but it's also shorter than the
left one to make room for the liver
right below it gets kind of crowded
there huh the opposite sides of a dice
will always add up to 7
it's 1 plus 6 then 2 plus 5 3 plus 4 you
get the gist
the poundcake goes back to the 17th
century so it's very stale the desert
got its name because it contained
exactly one pound of each ingredient
butter eggs sugar and flour hey isn't
that a four pound cake dolphins know
each other by name well sorta
they just copy each other's signature
whistles and use them to call others
just like we humans use each other's
names
yo flipper give me some thin dude